---
title: "Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
# permalink: <a href="https://iphss.kmu.edu.pk/1st-and-2nd-days-2nd-international-public-health-conference-begins-kmu-0#"
venue: "2nd International Public Health Conference"
date: 2020-02-26
location: "Khyber Medical University (KMU), Peshawar"
---
Link: <a href="https://iphss.kmu.edu.pk/1st-and-2nd-days-2nd-international-public-health-conference-begins-kmu-0#"> Conference Description </a>
Specialist doctors are few in number and are overburdened, computer-aided diagnostics need for decision support systems. One in three physicians are over 55 years of age, and a third of physicians are expected to retire in the next decade (BMC Health Services Research). The volumes of current patient data as well as their complexity make clinical decision making more challenging than ever. Biomedical informatics methods are required to process the data and form recommendations and/or predictions. AI is the solution to explore insights of this huge amount of data and assist doctors in medical decision making. Any mistake or failure in the diagnostic process leading to a misdiagnosis, or a delayed diagnosis is considered as diagnostic error. Diagnostic error underlies about 10%, an AI system can help to reduce diagnostic and therapeutic errors that are inevitable in the human clinical practice. Research shows that at least 5% of adults in the United States experience a diagnostic error each year in outpatient settings (World Health Organization). Medical mistakes are now estimated to kill up to 440,000 people in U.S. hospitals each year (Dolman Law Group). AI with its ground-breaking results can help to reduce these misdiagnosis statistics. As a team lead of Intelligent Information Processing Lab (IIPL), I delivered a talk on the ongoing projects of the lab;
1. Brain MRI Analysis and Tumor Segmentation using Artificial Intelligence
2. Development of Artificial Intelligence based Heart Sound Classification Algorithm
3. Automatic Liver Tumor Segmentation and Classification 
4. Automated Assessment of Thalassemia Minor 



